Contributing guidelines readability tweaks (#16428)
ParadiseSS13/Paradise: .github/CONTRIBUTING.md

[Issue Report Template](ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md).

## Commenting

> If you comment on an active pull request, or issue report, make sure your comment is

Author: How's this?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/57483089/127036906-92444c2f-e6e3-458c-8212-bd8276b27657.png)

concise and to the point. Comments on issue reports or pull requests should be relevant
and friendly, not attacks on the author or adages about something minimally relevant.

> If you believe an issue report is not a "bug", please report it to the Maintainers, or

Reviewer: Dont nag us. Just say it on the issue.

## Issues
The Issues section is not a place to request features, or ask for things to be changed
because you think they should be that way; The Issues section is specifically for

> reporting bugs in the code. Refer to the [Issue Template](ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md) for the exact format that your Issue

Reviewer: Kinda redundant? The issue template auto inserts

 * While we have no issue helping contributors (and especially new contributors) bring reasonably sized contributions up to standards via the pull request review process, larger contributions are expected to pass a higher bar of completeness and code quality *before* you open a pull request. Maintainers may close such pull requests that are deemed to be substantially flawed. You should take some time to discuss with maintainers or other contributors on how to improve the changes.

#### Using Changelog
 * The tags able to be used in the changelog are: `add/soundadd/imageadd`, `del/sounddel/imagedel`, `tweak`, `fix`, `wip`, `spellcheck`, and `experiment`.
 * Without specifying a name it will default to using your GitHub name.

>  Some examples

Reviewer 2: While you're here:
```suggestion
 Some examples include:
```
Also if you can, maybe add some space between this text and the examples below. They look a bit smushed together: 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42044220/126927832-b65ea2c5-6842-441d-ba7f-a08d1a7fcfc6.png)

Author: What do you mean?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/57483089/126963899-a2b08649-5c6f-4ea4-acb1-19f37ccfdcf0.png)

Reviewer 2: I just meant the space between the "Without specifying" line and the code block below was very small. Pretty minor issue though.

Author: Oh, yeah I see what you mean now. The spacing is smaller if it's under a bullet list than a regular paragraph. I'll add an extra line on those. 👍

    ```
    :cl:
    add: The ability to change the color of wires
    del: Deleted depreciated wire merging now handled in parent
    fix: Moving wires now follows the user input instead of moving the stack
    /:cl:
    ```
    ```

>     :cl: N3X15

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :cl: UsernameHere
```

UID's are actually unique; they work off of a global counter and are not recycled. Each datum has one assigned to it when it's created, which can be
accessed by `[datum.UID()]`. You can use this as a snap-in replacement for `\ref` by changing any `locate(ref)` calls in your code to `locateUID(ref)`.
Usage of this system is mandatory for any /Topic( calls, and will produce errors in Dream Daemon if it's not used.
```DM
//Bad

> "<a href='?src=\ref[src];'Link!</a>"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
"<a href='?src=\ref[src];'>Link!</a>"
```

Author: Whoops

//Good
"<a href='?src=[UID()];'>Link!</a>"
```

### Use `var/name` format when declaring variables
While DM allows other ways of declaring variables, this one should be used for consistency.

### Tabs, not spaces
You must use tabs to indent your code, NOT SPACES.

(You may use spaces to align something, but you should tab to the block level first, then add the remaining spaces.)

### No hacky code

> Hacky code, such as adding specific checks (ex: `istype(src, /obj/whatever)`), is highly discouraged and only allowed when there is ***no*** other option. (Protip: 'I couldn't immediately think of a proper way so thus there must be no other option' is not gonna cut it here! If you can't think of anything else, say that outright and admit that you need help with it. Maintainers exist for exactly that reason.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hacky code, such as adding specific checks (ex: `istype(src, /obj/whatever)`), is highly discouraged and only allowed when there is ***no*** other option. (Protip: 'I couldn't immediately think of a proper way so thus there must be no other option' is not gonna cut it here! If you can't think of anything else, say that outright and admit that you need help with it. Maintainers and other contributors who can help you exist for exactly that reason.)
```

Author: Could mention PR Reviewers as well? Or just leave it as "Contributors".

There are two key points here:

> 1) Defining a list in the variable's definition calls a hidden proc - init. If you have to define a list at startup, do so in `New()` (or preferably `Initialize()`) and avoid the overhead of a second call (`Init()` and then `New()`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) Defining a list in the variable's definition calls a hidden proc - init. If you have to define a list at startup, do so in `New()` (or preferably `Initialize()`) and avoid the overhead of a second call (`init()` and then `New()`)
```

There are two key points here:

1) Defining a list in the variable's definition calls a hidden proc - init. If you have to define a list at startup, do so in `New()` (or preferably `Initialize()`) and avoid the overhead of a second call (`Init()` and then `New()`)

2) It also consumes more memory to the point where the list is actually required, even if the object in question may never use it!

Remember: although this tradeoff makes sense in many cases, it doesn't cover them all. Think carefully about your addition before deciding if you need to use it.

### Prefer `Initialize()` over `New()` for atoms
Our game controller is pretty good at handling long operations and lag, but it can't control what happens when the map is loaded, which calls `New()` for all atoms on the map. If you're creating a new atom, use the `Initialize()` proc to do what you would normally do in `New()`. This cuts down on the number of proc calls needed when the world is loaded.

> While we normally encourage (and in some cases, even require) bringing out of date code up to date when you make unrelated changes near the out of date code, that is not the case for `New()` -> `Initialize()` conversions. These systems are generally more dependant on parent and children procs, so unrelated random conversions of existing things can cause bugs that take months to figure out.

Author: Ooh, good catch.

            do_other_stuff()
```
There's no indication of what "1" and "2" mean! Instead, you should do something like this:
```DM
//Good
#define DO_THE_THING_REALLY_HARD 1
#define DO_THE_THING_EFFICIENTLY 2

/datum/proc/do_the_thing(thing_to_do)
    switch(thing_to_do)
        if(DO_THE_THING_REALLY_HARD)
            do_stuff()
        if(DO_THE_THING_EFFICIENTLY)
            do_other_stuff()
```
This is clearer and enhances readability of your code! Get used to doing it!

### Control statements
(if, while, for, etc)

* All control statements comparing a variable to a number should use the formula of `thing` `operator` `number`, not the reverse
  (eg: `if(count <= 10)` not `if(10 >= count)`)
* All control statements must be spaced as `if()`, with the brackets touching the keyword.
* All control statements must not contain code on the same line as the statement.
  ```DM
  //Bad
  if(x) return

  //Good
  if(x)
      return
  ```

### Player Output
Due to the use of "Goonchat", Paradise requires a special syntax for outputting text messages to players. Instead of `mob << "message"`,
you must use `to_chat(mob, "message")`. Failure to do so will lead to your code not working.

> ### Use early return

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Use early returns
```

Do not enclose a proc in an if-block when returning on a condition is more feasible.

This is bad:
````DM
/datum/datum1/proc/proc1()
    if(thing1)
        if(!thing2)
            if(thing3 == 30)
                do stuff
````
This is good:
````DM
/datum/datum1/proc/proc1()
    if(!thing1)
        return
    if(thing2)
        return
    if(thing3 != 30)
        return
    do stuff
````
This prevents nesting levels from getting deeper then they need to be.

> ### Uses `addtimer()` instead of `sleep()` or `spawn()`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Use `addtimer()` instead of `sleep()` or `spawn()`
```

Author: is uses `addtimer()` instead of `sleep()` or `spawn()` yaya 🐦

If you need to call a proc after a set amount of time, use `addtimer()` instead of `spawn()` / `sleep()` where feasible.

> Although it is more complex, it is more  performant and unlike spawn() or sleep(), it can be cancelled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Although it is more complex, it is more performant and unlike `spawn()` or `sleep()`, it can be cancelled.
```

> Although it is more complex, it is more performant and unlike `spawn()` or `sleep()`, it can be cancelled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though more complex, this method has greater performance. Additionally, unlike `spawn()` or `sleep`(), it can be cancelled.
```

Source: @Shadeykins

        M.show_message("<span class='warning'>Arbitrary text</span>")

    //Good
    user.visible_message("<span class='warning'>Arbitrary text</span>")
    ```
  * You should not use color macros (`\red, \blue, \green, \black`) to color text,
  instead, you should use span classes. `<span class='warning'>Red text</span>`, `<span class='notice'>Blue text</span>`.
    ```
    //Bad
    to_chat(user, "\red Red text \black Black text")

    //Good
    to_chat(user, "<span class='warning'>Red text</span>Black text")
    ```
  * To use variables in strings, you should **never** use the `text()` operator, use
   embedded expressions directly in the string.
    ```DM
    //Bad
    to_chat(user, text("[] is leaking []!", name, liquid_type))

    //Good
    to_chat(user, "[name] is leaking [liquid_type]!")
    ```
 * To reference a variable/proc on the src object, you should **not** use
   `src.var`/`src.proc()`. The `src.` in these cases is implied, so you should just use
   `var`/`proc()`.
   ```DM
   //Bad
   var/user = src.interactor
   src.fill_reserves(user)

   //Good
   var/user = interactor
   fill_reserves(user)
   ```

### Develop Secure Code

> * Player input must always be escaped safely, we recommend you use stripped_input in all cases where you would use input. Essentially, just always treat input from players as inherently malicious and design with that use case in mind.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Player input must always be escaped safely, we recommend you use `stripped_input()` in all cases where you would use input. Essentially, just always treat input from players as inherently malicious and design with that use case in mind.
```

### SQL
* Do not use the shorthand sql insert format (where no column names are specified) because it unnecessarily breaks all queries on minor column changes and prevents using these tables for tracking outside related info such as in a connected site/forum.

* Use parameters for queries, as mentioned above in [Develop Secure Code](#develop-secure-code).

* Always check your queries for success with `if(!query.warn_execute())`. By using this standard format, you can ensure the correct log messages are used.

* Always `qdel()` your queries after you are done with them, this cleans up the results and helps things run smoother.

> * All changes to the database's layout (schema) must be specified in the database changelog in SQL, as well as reflected in the schema files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All changes to the database's layout (schema) must be specified in the database changelog in SQL, as well as reflected in the schema file.
```

pull requests/issues, and merging/closing pull requests.

### Maintainer List
* [AffectedArc07](https://github.com/AffectedArc07)
* [Ansari](https://github.com/variableundefined)
* [Crazy Lemon](https://github.com/Crazylemon64)
* [Fox P McCloud](https://github.com/Fox-McCloud)

### Maintainer instructions
* Do not "self-merge"; this refers to the practice of opening a pull request, then
  merging it yourself. A different maintainer must review and merge your pull request, no
  matter how trivial. This is to ensure quality.

>   * A subset of this instruction: Do not push directly to the repository, always make a

Author: For clarity, the only changes made to this section were putting the 'Maintainer list' into alphabetical order, and replacing the backticks with quotation marks around "self-merge".
